this is a key punji first discovered in
2005 and never filmed before
in looks and behavior the new monkey
resembles a manga be but it's DNA is
similar to a Babu's
for now the evolutionary origins of the
charismatic ranjit remain shrouded in
mystery
the punches are particularly fond of
this sticky orange cucumber fruit which
sprouts from vines in the treetops
they're known to feed on over 100
different plants and play a crucial role
in dispersing their seeds but even while
scientists begin to uncover their secret
lies Kip enjoys a teetering on the verge
of extinction as the isolated forests
around Mount Runway are cleared for
farming and firewood the Cape undies
unique forest habitat is shrinking with
a mere thousand individuals remaining in
the wild they are already the rarest
monkeys in Africa there may be little
time left to study them
fortunately key punches do have friends
and a project is now underway to
safeguard a part of their forest home
and involve local people in their
protection
you